Step 1 Determining a monthly allowance: 
 
The first stage of understanding your personal finance is knowing how much money you actually have every month! For some this might be simple, for others you might need to dig deep. It’s okay if you don’t know exactly how much that is now, you can determine the exact amount later with our helpful spreadsheet. We don’t know the specifics of your situation, so it’s up to you to determine what counts towards your monthly funds. Here are some cases that may apply to you:
Monthly allowance from family
Work Study or any income from Jobs or side hustles
Apply a budget based on funds you might have saved in a checking or savings account
Financial Aid Received on a semester basis can be divided by 4 to give you a monthly allowance
	

Step 2: How to find all of your debts: 
Step1- Go to StudentAid.gov
Go to http://Studentaid.gov. 
Click “Log in” (top right)
Log in using your FAFSA ID (email + password) 

Step2- Go to your dashboard 
After logging in:
Click “My Aid” from the top menu or click “View Details” on your dashboard 

Step3- View your loans 
On the My Aid page, scroll down: 

You will see: 
Loan Type (Subsidized / Unsubsidized / PLUS, etc.)
Loan Status
Loan Amount
Total balance

Click “View Breakdown” to see details 

Step4- Take Screenshot
They want a screenshot showing:
Your name (if required)
Total loan balance
List of loans

On Mac:
Press Command + Shift + 4

On Windows:
Press Windows + Shift + S

Save the screenshot and submit it.


Step 3: How to find your work study and loan acceptances through MySlice:

To build your personal finance budget, an important step is knowing where and how to find your work study payments and loan acceptances. To view your information, follow these steps:
Step 1-
Go to https://myslice.ps.syr.edu/
Click “Login”
Enter your MySlice username and password

Step 2-
Click “Financial Aid”
Select Applicable Aid Year (for example, “2026”)

Step 3-
View the top row selections and click “Award Summary”

From here, you can now see every scholarship and work study amount associated with your account. 

	Step 4-
	Input your scholarships and work studies into the financial planner template.



Step 4: 50/30/20 Sheet: 
	One of the easiest ways to see if you are living within your means is using the 50/30/20 rule. This means that each month you allocate 50% to needs, 30% to wants, and 20% to savings. This can actually be quite hard to stick to as a college student, since having a monthly income is hard to achieve as a college student. As such, we recommend splitting this into 65/25/10 (65% needs, 25% wants, 10% savings)

Remember, a need is something that you need to live. This means rent/housing, groceries/meal plan, utilities, or maybe even car insurance if applicable. A want is something that you can physically live without. So yes, the $8.25 coffee you get doesn’t count as a need. Essentially, any of your monthly expenses that aren’t basic needs, are wants. 

Finally, you can count savings as anything that is left over at the month. We will dive further into how you can use your money to save better with special types of savings accounts. 

For now, please go through the below spreadsheet and fill this information out based on your situation. Remember, the goal isn’t to be perfect, but just roughly define how you spend your money each month.
